[Music]
wait who's there on the other side of
the screen watching this video you
absolutely but are you one creature or a
sort of colony mm-hmm
we'll start there about three pounds of
your body are bacteria fungi and other
microscopic organisms that are a part of
you don't worry they're there to keep
you healthy ten pounds of you is just
your skin double that for your bones and
just for good measure your heart weighs
the same as a can of soup which explains
hearty soup I guess maybe not you're
also 60% water your brain and heart are
over 70% and the lungs 80% your body is
ever changing boy don't I know it when
you're born you have about 300 bones by
adulthood
one-third of those have fused together
to leave you with just 206 and your
technically missing kneecaps until about
age three at first they're made of
cartilage the same vendee stuff as your
ears and nose and then hardened into
bone you lose about 300 billion cells
every minute they get replaced by new
ones so no worrys hey how many of you
regenerated since this video started
this is exactly how your liver is able
to grow back even from being cut down
almost in half it's the only organ
capable of such extreme regeneration the
only body part totally unable to
regenerate is tooth enamel has your
dentist warned you in fact thanks to
cell regeneration you replace your skin
entirely every month your blood every
four months deliver 500 days and you
make yourself new bone cells every ten
years fingernails grow faster than
toenails so if you had a feeling that
you have to cut them more often it's
because you do a woman's heart beats a
little faster than a man's on average
it's because their hearts are usually
smaller so they need to work harder to
pump all that
blood around the body call that blood
indeed your heart pumps one-third of a
cup of blood around your body with each
beat that's 2,000 gallons a day
enough to fill 45 bathtubs all that
oxygen carrying good stuff travels
through a vast network of veins so vast
in fact that if you stretch all your
vessels out they'd wrap around the earth
twice not recommended your brain gets
20% of the oxygen and blood in your body
you inhale and exhale
25,000 times every day well you got to
feed the brain its massive oxygen supply
on that note scientists believe this
could be why we Yard Oh to get more
oxygen to the brain when you get bored
or tired you don't breathe as deeply and
it starves the brain a little belong'
stretching the surrounding muscles also
helps wake the body up sneezing can send
droplets of mucus out of the body going
100 miles per hour
as for coughing up to 60 miles per hour
[Applause]
now if you don't want to spread germs do
an elbow bump instead of a handshake
experts found that it spreads fewer
germs even better
don't touch hands at all they spread
bacteria the most only 1/6 of your
eyeball is visible the whole thing is
about the size of a ping-pong ball if
you're farsighted you see things better
far away it means your eye is shorter
than normal
nearsightedness when faraway objects are
blurry means a longer than usual eye
your right lung can hold more air than
the left one but it's shorter to make
room for the liver below it hey don't
crowd me one in 10,000 are born with
reversed organs so all that will be
flip-flop with them what in 10,000 are
also born without a sense of smell
called anosmia must make mealtime a real
bummer 80% of your sense of taste comes
from what you're smelling the smallest
bones and muscles are in the inner ear
more than half your bones are just in
your hands and feet all your fingers
have three bones but your thumbs only
have to just bend them and see your
capillaries are the smallest and most
numerous types of blood vessels you have
10 billion of them in miles that's
enough to reach Pluto and back to earth
and then to Pluto again with some
despair but your largest organ is your
skin the average adult is covered with
about 22 square feet of this stuff
that's bigger than a twin sized mattress
top if you could take all the surface
area in your lungs and flatten it out
it'd be the size of a tennis court
dimples are usually genetic but you can
train your cheek muscles to create them
just press your thumbs or the eraser end
of a pencil in the spots you want your
dimples to appear do it every day for at
least 30 minutes and you should see
results in a month your palm is exactly
a quarter of your arm length you bend
the fingers on one hand about 25 million
times over your life most people have
100,000 scalp hair follicles though
blondes usually have up to 150,000 and
redheads only 90,000 you have so much
hair on your head because your head
doesn't have fat that's what usually
gives your body nice warm insulation
good thing too the head is responsible
for 80% of your body's heat emission
because your brain is the most energy
consuming organ think about it
speaking of the brain if you could open
your head and poke it you wouldn't feel
a thing
please don't try this at home the brain
might be the powerhouse of the nervous
system but it doesn't contain any pain
receptors when you get chills from
listening to songs that move you it's
your brain releasing dopamine the happy
hormone in that exact moment head full
of thoughts experts estimate that the
human brain has about 70,000 of them per
day you're a tad bit taller about the
width of a fingernail in the morning
than in the evening throughout the day
gravity squishes the space between your
vertebrae and
your knees they get stretched back out
when you lie down all night
now you can't tickle yourself go ahead
and try it your brain already knows your
intentions and gets ready for it you
can't prepare yourself when others are
about to tickle you though bounce for
ounce your bones are as strong as steel
but they're weightless dense so they
break more easily if you could squish
them up to the same density of Steel
they'd be equals and we'd all be
superheroes the human body contains
enough iron to make a three-inch nail
the human eye can see a candle light up
to thirty miles away for comparison the
Mariana Trench the deepest known place
on this planet they could fit Mount
Everest with room to spare goes only six
miles down when you look at the world
the picture projected on the back wall
of the eye is upside down
luckily the video card in your brain
corrects that every person's body has a
unique smell unless you have an
identical twin a person can be
identified by their fingerprints but
your tongue and lip prints are just as
unique yeah let's bring out the lip
print scanner even better are the unique
characteristics in your eyes there are
over 200 of them five times more than in
your fingerprints well you make one
quart of saliva each day over a lifetime
53 bathtubs worth how about that spit
studies show that 12% of people dream in
black and white do you let me know down
in the comments the human body has
around 600 muscles when you're simply
walking hundreds of muscles and bones
keep you from falling on your face as
you lean forward with each step sweating
while exercising walking or running is
different than the stuff rolling down
your forehead as you laze around the
house stress sweat has fatty acids in it
well couch potato sweat doesn't contrary
to popular belief the tongue is not the
strongest muscle in your body that would
be your jaw muscle plus the tongue isn't
technically a muscle it's eight of them
woven
together it actually resembles an
octopus tentacle and structure humans
are the only species with chins why we
have it is still a mystery another
unexplained fact is our habit of
cracking our knuckles that sound many
people find strangely pleasant is
bubbles of air bursting inside the
joints blushing occurs because of an
adrenaline rush to the blood stream when
your cheeks blush so does your stomach
for some reason all living things have a
different number of chromosomes humans
have 46 Peas 14 and crayfish 200 we
share about 99% of our chromosomes with
chimps you also share 90% with your cat
and 50% with a banana so yeah
DNA is a funny thing it's kind of like
Legos you can make a bunch of different
things with the same blocks the juice is
in your stomach or just slightly less
acidic than the stuff in batteries if
given enough time your stomach could
dissolve metal don't test it just look
it up
babies are usually born without teeth
but about one in 2,000 newborns have one
the highest concentration of sweat
glands is on the soles of your feet that
explains how your feet produce half a
pint of sweat a day over your lifetime
it's 1700 gallons or 400 bathtubs
so remember change your socks you'll
produce almost as many tears almost
1,600 gallons in a half an hour your
body generates enough heat to boil up to
a pint of water and 85% of the heat your
body produces comes purely from muscle
contractions and that's it for this
edition of fast facts of your flesh hey
if you learn something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other videos
I think you'll like mm-hmm just click to
the left or right and remember stay on
the bright side of life